# Documentation with GitHub Pages

Projects can use GitHub Pages to provide end user documentation, testing instructions, and more. With GitHub Pages, you can maintain a project's documentation right from the repository inside a special folder called the `docs` folder.

## Create Structure for Documentation

Before we enable GitHub Pages on our repository, we should create a `docs` folder in our repository so we can select it as our the source for our documentation.

1. Create a new branch 
1. After creating a new branch, click **Add a file**
1. In the field, enter `docs/README.md`

       > Notice anything cool when you add the `/`?

1. Commit the new file addition on your branch
1. Create a new pull request, comparing the `base: master` to your new branch.
1. Merge your new pull request. 

## Enable GitHub Pages

You won't be able to see your site on the web until you enable GitHub Pages on this repository. All we're doing is asking GitHub to take what's on the master branch and publish a website based on its contents.

1. Click on the **Settings** tab.
1. Scroll down to the GitHub Pages section.
1. Select the **None** dropdown.
1. Click on `master/docs` branch.
1. Click **Save**.

Now that we have enabled GitHub Pages, lets take a look at the site that is currently being generated by the README.md file that we added to our `docs` folder.

## Selecting a Theme

1. Go back to the **Settings** tab for your repository
1. Click **Choose a theme**
1. Select a theme from those provided and click **Select theme**

Your GitHub Pages site is now using a theme. 
